Add help topic for combined frequency statistics (#1465)
broadinstitute/gnomad-browser: browser/help/topics/combined-freq-stats.md

---
id: combined-freq-stats
title: 'Combined genomes and exomes frequency statistics'
---

**Contingency Table Test (Chi-squared or Fisher's exact test):**

> We applied Hail's [contingency_table_test](https://hail.is/docs/0.2/functions/stats.html#hail.expr.functions.contingency_table_test) to a 2x2 table representing allele counts (AC) and allele numbers (AN) for both exomes and genomes. The minimum cell count in the contingency table defines whether a hi-squared or Fisher's exact test is used. We used a threshold of `min_cell_count=100`, meaning that if all cell counts in the 2x2 table were over 100, we used a Fisher's exact test.  We generated odds ratio and p-values for all variants in both the gnomAD exomes and genomes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We applied Hail's [contingency_table_test](https://hail.is/docs/0.2/functions/stats.html#hail.expr.functions.contingency_table_test) to a 2x2 table representing allele counts (AC) and allele numbers (AN) for both exomes and genomes. The minimum cell count in the contingency table defines whether a chi-squared or Fisher's exact test is used. We used a threshold of `min_cell_count=100`, meaning that if all cell counts in the 2x2 table were over 100, we used a Fisher's exact test.  We generated odds ratio and p-values for all variants in both the gnomAD exomes and genomes.
```

**Cochran–Mantel–Haenszel (CMH) Test:**

> This stratified test of independence is applied to 2x2xK contingency tables, where K represents the number of strata (in this case, inferred genetic ancestry group information). The CMH test provides a way to assess variant frequency differences between exomes and genomes while controlling for population structure, offering a more nuanced understanding of the discrepancies observed. The CMH test is computed using the [stats.contingency_tables.StratifiedTable](https://www.statsmodels.org/dev/generated/statsmodels.stats.contingency_tables.StratifiedTable.html) function from [statsmodels](https://www.statsmodels.org/stable/index.html), which outputs a chi-squared test statistic and corresponding p-value. **Note** that we use results from the CMH test and not the contingency table test to flag variants with highly discordant frequencies between the exomes and genomes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This stratified test of independence is applied to 2x2xK contingency tables, where K represents the number of strata (in this case, inferred genetic ancestry groups). The CMH test provides a way to assess variant frequency differences between exomes and genomes while controlling for population structure, offering a more nuanced understanding of the discrepancies observed. The CMH test is computed using the [stats.contingency_tables.StratifiedTable](https://www.statsmodels.org/dev/generated/statsmodels.stats.contingency_tables.StratifiedTable.html) function from [statsmodels](https://www.statsmodels.org/stable/index.html), which outputs a chi-squared test statistic and corresponding p-value. **Note** that we use results from the CMH test and not the contingency table test to flag variants with highly discordant frequencies between the exomes and genomes.
```
sorry, I changed my mind about the gen anc groups text
